# MODEL1305060000: MODEL1305060000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1305060000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1305060000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Reyes-Palomares2012 - a combined model hepatic polyamine and sulfur aminoacid
metabolism - version1

Mammalian polyamine metabolism consists of a bi-cycle with two required
entrances, omithine and S-adenosyl methionine (SAM), and several alternative
exists. The relevant regulatory roles of the short half-life enzymes ornithine
decarboxylase (ODC), S-adenosyl methione decarboxylase (SAMDC) and
spermindine/spermine acetyl transferase (SSAT) in polyamine metabolism are
well studied, and has been modelled here.

This model is described in the article:

[A combined model of hepatic polyamine and sulfur amino acid metabolism to
analyze S-adenosyl methionine
availability.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/\[21814788\])

Reyes-Palomares A, Montañez R, Sánchez-Jiménez F, Medina MA

Amino Acids, February 2012, Volume 42, Issue 2-3, pp 597-610

Abstract:

Many molecular details remain to be uncovered concerning the regulation of
polyamine metabolism. A previous model of mammalian polyamine metabolism
showed that S-adenosyl methionine availability could play a key role in
polyamine homeostasis. To get a deeper insight in this prediction, we have
built a combined model by integration of the previously published polyamine
model and one-carbon and glutathione metabolism model, published by different
research groups. The combined model is robust and it is able to achieve
physiological steady-state values, as well as to reproduce the predictions of
the individual models. Furthermore, a transition between two versions of our
model with new regulatory factors added properly simulates the switch in
methionine adenosyl transferase isozymes occurring when the liver enters in
proliferative conditions. The combined model is useful to support the previous
prediction on the role of S-adenosyl methionine availability in polyamine
homeostasis. Furthermore, it could be easily adapted to get deeper insights on
the connections of polyamines with energy metabolism.

**Notes by the author:**

This model combines BIOMD0000000190 and BIOMD0000000268 from BioModels
Database, both models include corrections respect to their originals
publications.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1305060000](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1305060000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


